Git - UNIX based VCS
Git provides the tools necessary for the developer to manage a local repository of files on their hard drive.

GitHub is a file repository hosting service that provides tools to share project files with other registered members of the community. GitHub also provides automated solutions to assist with file versions being committed by several users occurring at the same time.

The GitHub Desktop Application is a version control system that bridges the gap between the tools already built-in to the GitHub website and provides the user with a visual solution to easily manage their repository files on both their local hard drive and the remote GitHub server.

Bash is short for “Bourne Again SHell.” Bash is a command-line user interface for Unix.

A command language is a programming language made up mostly of commands that are mainly used for communicating with the operating system of a computer.

Bash is a shell and a command language. Users can type commands that cause actions in the bash.

Centralized and Distributed VCS

The pseudo console (also called ConPTY ) is a text-based console that grants developers the ability to work with and communicate with command line applications. It is a sort of intermediary (in between) application that allows you to send and receive commands from the command line.

.sh - extension for file with shell commands

Vim - Vi(Visual) Improved - text editor for Unix OS

.crt is a file extension that indicates the file contains a digital certificate for validating the authenticity of a website in a web browser.

Ca-bundle.crt is a certificate authority file that contains multiple certificates to verify security and ensure trust that your data will be secure and kept private on the internet. The CA bundle improves compatibility of certificates for web browsers to recognize so that no security warnings appear in your browser's address bar.

LF stands for line feed.
Control characters are not printable characters. They instead represent an action to be done by the computer for text files. For example, delete is a control character.
LF is another example of a control character. The control character LF denotes a line break in a text file – the cursor moves down to the next line but does not move to the beginning of the line.

CRLF stands for carriage return line feed and is another control character. The CRLF control character moves the cursor to the beginning of the line.

MSYS2 stands for Minimal Systems 2.
MSYS2 is a collection of open source software tools that would normally depend on Unix tools to operate. It provides the support needed to build Windows applications without the dependencies of Unix tools.

MinTTY is a terminal. It is a text-based console interface (like the windows command line).

Winpty stands for Windows pseudo terminal. It is a Windows Software package that provides a way for Windows console programs to communicate with Unix interfaces, such as bash.

"INI" is short for "initialization".
INI files are used by the Windows operating system, typically to lay out operating instructions for the OS and some programs.

The docx file format (.docx) is short for “document XML.” 
As a reminder, XML is an extensible markup language. This means that developers can create their own document structure, and then use XML to specify markup instructions for the data in those documents. Tags are the markup language words that usually have two parts, a start tag and an end tag. They have these symbols before and after them: < and >. XML is similar to HTML except that the code itself can be customized (i.e. the developer can create their own tags).

Touch is a command-line interface program for Unix that is used to update date information – such as: changing the date that a file or directory was modified or accessed. Touch can also be used to create or open a file.

Tilde is the name for the symbol ~
It is pronounced “tilda.”

Parse means to break something up into its parts and analyze it.

Hash is an operation that converts one value to another. It is usually used to mask data with different data.

ls -a : List all files in CWD including hidden files

git init myRepository : intialises a new git repository

cd myRepository : moves to the specified folder

git help

echo 'This is my first text file' > file1.txt
this will create a txt file. but for git to keep track of the changes in file, we need to add the file to git

git add file1.txt

git status: to check the chanes that need to be commited to git. if the changes are not commited. The changes that we made, will be lost.
git commit -m "Added new txt file"
-m : message to keep track of the changes made in each comment

git log: gives the version or commit hash(160bit long string in hexadecimal)

Staging is the step prior to the commit process in Git.
A staged file means that you have marked the file to be included in your next commit.
git add . : add all modifiled and new files to staging to be commited

mkdir fileName: to create a new dir

mv : can move files and also rename files
mv file2.txt myCodeFiles
mv file2.txt renamedFile2.txt

git branch myFirstBranch : to create a new branch
git branch : gives the listog branches and indicates the current branch with * sign

git checkout myFirstBranch : move to another branch
also check if you are in correct branch after moving using "git branch" command

git commit -a -m "added a new file file2"

git branch -d testBranch : to delete the branch

git checkout 563d3d : "563d3d" is the first 6 characters of last commit hash

git switch - : to move back to latest commit

git merge myFirstBranch : always make sure that themerge is executed from master/main branch

cat file1.txt : To see where the merge conflicts exist
To avoid merge conflicts, always update the current branch with master branch changes

A fork is a copy of a repository.

git clone cloneUrl : copies the online Repository to local repository
Deltas: shows/represents the difference between the cloed file and the original.
Always make sure that the delta is 100%

git diff: shows the changes that was made to the repository

git push cloneUrl: to push the changes to remote Repository
Once the updates are pushed these changes need to be pulled to GitHub

A GitHub README is written in the .md format, which stands for markdown. 

Elements of a Good README
A good README consists of a few important elements, for example:
    Titles - Names of important sections within the README
    Introduction - The project's aim
    Technologies - List of languages used
    Launch - Version of languages used for reproducibility
    And depending on the scope of the project, they will also contain:
    
    Table of contents - Contains links to the main sections of the README.
    Illustrations - Pictures of code that help show what was created.
    Scope of functionalities - What the program is capable of.
    Examples of use - What it can be used for.
    Project status - What stage of development the project is at.
    Sources - List of sources for the project.
    Other information - Author and contact information, social media links, and licenses.


